---
layout: item
format: Photograph
title: Tom Demko and Ruth Connell 1968
author: "unknown"
contributor: "Tom and Ruth Demko"
group: 
creator: "unknown"
externalurl: 
embedurl: 
creationdate: "ca.1968"
type: "Physical Object"
shortdesc: "Photograph of Tom Demko and Ruth Demko née Connell taken at the Malinak home in 1968 before they were married."
contributorquote: 
categories: [ 1960s, Tom Demko, Ruth Demko ]
tags: [ Demko Family ]
teammember: Alexis Shoulta
---

## About This Item

This is a photograph taken of Tom Demko and Ruth Demko née Connell in May 28, 1968 before they were married. It was taken at the Malinak Home in May of 1968.

## Discussion from the Contributor

Throughout this transcript "Pap" refers to Thomas Demko and "Pappappap" refers to his father, Bella 'Albert' Demko.

(0:00 - 0:20)
Alexis: Okay, here we go. 

Ruth: I'm trying to think. I think I was, you know, like we were so busy doing stuff and we had, no, no, it was something tied with Malinaks, but it was a different occasion, I think.

(0:20 - 0:31)
Ruth: I don't think it was this one. I don't know. Could it have been this one, that month before? I'm not sure.

(0:31 - 0:49)
Alexis: Were the Mainaks your friends? 

Tom: Butch and Louise, they were dad, Butch was dad's first cousin. Louise was from Kansas. 

Ruth: And that was for, we were supposed to be something for their daughter.

(0:49 - 1:02)
Ruth: I'm trying to think of it. I do remember that they planned a surprise bridal shower for me. And, no, okay, this is different.

(1:03 - 1:15)
Tom: Rosie did that, right? 

Ruth: Yeah, this is a different occasion. I'm not sure why we were there. If it was her graduation, Patty's graduation or what, I'm not sure why we were there.

(1:17 - 1:28)
Alexis: End of May would make sense for graduation. 

Ruth: It might, yeah, it might have been her graduation. The other thing, what I was thinking of, and you have a picture here of this.

(1:32 - 1:48)
Ruth: Yeah, it was different. I don't know where we were going to go, what we were going to do. But I was told that I had to, we had to stop at the electric company.

(1:49 - 1:57)
Tom: Drop my mother off for something. Something was going on. 

Ruth: Yeah, not that. Yes, dear, there was something going on.

(1:58 - 2:20)
Ruth: And we had to stop there to give her a key that was forgotten or something. This is what I was told. And we went there, and when we pulled in around the building there, I saw that Rose's, that was in the wedding, I saw her car parked there.

(2:21 - 2:37)
Ruth: And when I saw that, then I was suspicious. And I'm trying to think if there was someone else's car, but I remember I saw Rose's car. And what it was, it wasn't that he had to give a key to his mother that got forgotten or whatever.

(2:38 - 2:59)
Ruth: That was the excuse to get me there because it was a surprise bridal show. And it was at the electric company place because the electric company, Rose worked for the electric company, and she was able to do this. They would, if you, you could hold an affair like that.

(3:00 - 3:25)
Tom: And they gave you stuff, didn't they? They gave you samples of it? 

Ruth: What you had as your shower programming was they had one of their electric company people come in and made some food, and I guess it was the show Cooking with Electric and stuff like that. I don't remember, but I guess that was all. 

Alexis: An electric stove instead of a gas stove.

(3:25 - 3:50)
Ruth: But as it turned out, though, what the representative from the electric company made, that we had that to be able to eat for our shower. And they gave out prizes and everything, electric company, so it really made you preparing for a bridal shower much easier. 

Alexis: Through the power of corporate advertising.

(3:52 - 4:07)
Ruth: And actually, that's where I held, had, arranged for Gail's and Harold's bridal shower. Only it was at the gas company. 

Alexis: The gas company did the same thing!

(4:07 - 4:17)
Alexis: It was a gas stove instead of an electric stove. 

Ruth: The gas company did the same kind of a program. And it really worked out nicely for having a bridal shower.

(4:17 - 4:23)
Tom: You don't have to get any food, you don't have to work, clean up. 

Alexis: It's crazy. They would never do something like that today.

(4:24 - 4:37)
Ruth: But we were able to give a prize to everybody because the gas company was giving away things, and so it wasn't extra costly. It was a very, very good thing. You didn't have to provide.

(4:37 - 4:49)
Alexis: Food.

Ruth: No, I mean, I guess we could have provided cookies or something. Yeah, you didn't have to provide all the food, and you didn't have to look for a rental hall.

(4:49 - 5:20)
Ruth: We didn't have to pay rent for it. 

Alexis: I think that's really interesting, too, because you also have to think, too, you have a bridal shower, right? It's also not just advertising, like, oh, look, who's going to pick out the stove once that wife gets married, right? Like, you think about, like, who's really using those electric objects, using the gas objects? It's probably women in the home. So they're also not just advertising to you, but they're also advertising to all your friends.

(5:22 - 5:33)
Ruth: Yeah, I guess it was a good commercial. 

Alexis: Yeah, I don't know what else to say. You get all the young mothers and wives, they'll be like, man, that gas stove was really nifty.

(5:33 - 5:41)
Alexis: I saw it at the bridal party. Maybe I want a gas stove. I'll tell my husband I want a gas stove.

(5:41 - 6:04)
Tom: Even if you don't know about something, and if something is exposed, you may not buy the exact same thing, but you may buy something upgraded from that or downgraded from that, depending upon the price. 

Ruth: Yeah, price, price, price. Whenever we were in our first apartment, the people moving out offered to sell their stove to us.

(6:07 - 6:19)
Ruth: And because, I don't know if it was Pappappap that found it, or what, but no.

Tom: Everybody worked with it. 

Ruth: Yeah, no, I didn't buy that lady's stove.

(6:19 - 6:37)
Ruth: It was $50, which was, I guess, a lot at that time. If they went and bought me a secondhand stove from someone, they'd need it for $35. It was in good condition and all, good shape, but I don't think it was the stove that I would have gotten if I would have bought the one.

(6:37 - 6:48)
Ruth: I think hers was more of an upgraded stove. 

Tom: What did we ever do with that stove? Did we left it there? 

Ruth: No. It went to Eddie Leck.

(6:49 - 7:01)
Tom: Oh. And I got told about the dirty oven and your mother having to clean the oven out and et cetera. 

Alexis: Do you remember, was it a gas stove or was it an electric stove? 

Ruth: Yes, it was a gas stove.

(7:01 - 7:13)
Tom: An electric stove, we'd have taken. Because the house was all electric up on the hill. Yeah, but everything, people, most, I guess, my family, I guess it was your family, no, your mother only had electric.

(7:14 - 7:25)
Ruth: But my mother always had a gas stove, that was all I was exposed to, and that would have been fine with me. But when we moved up to the mountains, the only availability was electric. And actually, I liked the electric.

