---
layout: item
format: Photograph
title: Tom, Ruth and Karen Demko Christmas 1970
author: "unknown"
contributor: "Tom and Ruth Demko"
group: 
creator: "unknown"
externalurl: 
embedurl: 
creationdate: "ca.1970"
type: "Physical Object"
shortdesc: "Photograph of Tom and Ruth Demko with their daughter Karen on Christmas day 1970"
contributorquote: 
categories: [ 1970s, Tom Demko, Ruth Demko, Karen Shoulta ]
tags: [ Demko Family ]
teammember: Alexis Shoulta
---

## About This Item

This photogrpah was taken the Christmas of 1970 at Tom and Ruth Demko's house on Dishong Mountain Road. It was Karen's second Christmas and Ruth was also pregnant with her and Tom's second child, Chris. The family would always go to Christmas Day Mass together. The dress Ruth is wearing was made for her by her sister-in-law Betty. She and the family often made their own clothes for themselves, each other and their children. 

## Discussion from the Contributor
(0:00 - 0:17)
Alexis: Okay, so then there's this one. The tag says it's from, it's you mom and you and it's from 70 and I believe it's from Christmas. This is because like when you look might be a little bit cut off.

(0:17 - 0:22)
Alexis: No, January. I swore this one was from Christmas. I could be wrong.

(0:23 - 0:35)
Ruth: Yes, 

Alexis: It says January '71. Wait, no, no, no, no,  

Ruth: It was right after Christmas 

Alexis: Then date on this is wrong. 

Ruth: Oh, no 70 and 71.

(0:36 - 0:39)
Alexis: Hmm. Okay. Well, yeah, but this one says 12/25/70.

(0:40 - 0:46)
Alexis: Yeah, oh, so it was printed January. 

Ruth: Oh, 71. I see what you're saying.

(0:46 - 0:56)
Alexis: Okay. So printed January 71, but it's from Christmas Day 1970. 

Tom: It's probably up on the hill right?

Ruth: Yes.

(0:57 - 1:02)
Ruth: That's up on the mountain. See, I don't know. What all this stuff is sitting here.

(1:02 - 1:11)
Ruth: That might be...

Tom: Christmas presents. 

Ruth: Whoever was at the house, I guess. 

Alexis: Was it your guys's house? 

Ruth: Was it? 

Alexis: Was it somebody else's house? 

No, that was our house.

(1:11 - 1:22)
Tom: Dishong road.

Ruth: That was our house. So I don't know who might have been there because that looks like stuff that was there from people that came to visit us.

(1:23 - 1:30)
Alexis: Was that my mom's first Christmas? 

Ruth: No, it's her second. 

Alexis: Her first... No, you're right.

(1:30 - 1:43)
Alexis: 69 would have been her first Christmas. 

Ruth: Right, and that was down in the apartment. Yeah, I was pregnant with Uncle Chris and that dress was a darker brown and this up in here was a lighter brown and Aunt Betty made that for me.

(1:46 - 2:00)
Alexis: Pregnant and still wearing heels. 

Ruth: Yeah, I guess I was, wasn't I? 

Alexis: Do you remember anything from that Christmas? 

Ruth: Not in particular. No, I can't think of anything.

(2:00 - 2:22)
Alexis: What would, what would you guys like do on Christmas? Like what was your Christmas Day routine? Do you remember? 

Ruth: No, I don't really. 

Tom: When the kids got older, they were opening gifts. Did we go down to dad and mom's.

Ruth: Yes, we would go down to your parents.

(2:24 - 2:32)
Alexis: On the day of? 

Tom: Christmas, probably.

Ruth: Yes. 

Alexis: Did you guys go to Mass the day of or the night before? 

Ruth: Probably the day of.

(2:32 - 2:39)
Ruth: You don't have a... 

Tom: Probably the morning. 

Ruth: Yeah, yeah, because I don't know just when those night Masses started. 

Alexis: Modern invention?

(2:41 - 3:24)
Alexis: Was it more of a modern invention to go Christmas Eve instead of?

Ruth: Well, I, yeah, I don't, well there was Midnight Mass from many years, many years ago on Midnight Mass before we got married and before, but yeah, it would have been way too hard to try to take a little one that's not even two years old to Midnight Mass, keeping her up if she stayed up and, and having to, you know, deal with her. 

Tom: Pretty cranky. 

Alexis: So it was your house? 

Ruth: It was our house.

(3:24 - 3:42)
Alexis: Would you have, who would, who would you, would you have had both sides of the family over or just one side? 

Tom: I don't think anybody came.

Ruth: Well, we would have probably taken, we would have had my parents up there sometime at Christmas. We wouldn't have just never had my parents up there. I don't remember.

(3:42 - 3:59)
Alexis: Just you, my mom, and Pap alone in the house on Christmas?

Ruth: No, I don't know. I cannot remember, but I, I feel like a 99.9999%, my parents would have been at our house somewhere along the line.

(3:59 - 4:05)
Ruth: How much? I, I don't know. 

Alexis: Especially the new baby. 

Ruth: Well, no. Yeah.

(4:05 - 4:08)
Alexis: The year, year old baby. Yeah.

(4:09 - 4:19)
Ruth: Yeah. She would have been like the center of attention and I don't know, I don't know when that Mary Jo came in. She would have come sometime at Christmas.

(4:19 - 4:33)
Ruth: But at this time, my parents were still living in their house. At this time, both of them were still living. So Aunt Mary Jo would have stayed at their house, not with us.

(4:35 - 4:46)
Ruth: I just, I just don't remember all that stuff. I remember that Christmas with the trains and it was the Long girls at the house. 

Alexis: It's cool that you remember the detail about the dresses though.

(4:47 - 4:51)
Ruth: Yeah. 

Tom: Big dishes of ice cream. [unintellgible] Handpacked.

(4:52 - 5:05)
Ruth: Yeah, but I don't know how much you've got that on there. This dress, Aunt Betty made me this one and another one just like a different material. And as I can remember, she never measured me or anything.

(5:05 - 5:15)
Ruth: She must have just bought a pattern. 

Alexis: She didn't even measure you? She just? 

Ruth: Guess she bought a pattern in a size she thought was right for me. And, and.

(5:15 - 5:27)
Alexis: She get altered? 

Ruth: Hmm. No. Oh, let me see that picture again.

(5:27 - 5:37)
Ruth: I'm trying to think. Yeah. 

Alexis: She looks like me there.

(5:39 - 5:44)
Ruth: Yeah, I think you look like her. 

Alexis: I look like her, okay. 

Ruth: I was trying to see this dress.

(5:47 - 6:03)
Alexis: Oh, it's as big as it gets. 

Ruth: What's that? 

Alexis: It won't go. 

Ruth: Um, the reason why I was doing a second take is because I know, remember she had a, a dress that I guess was crocheted by someone.

(6:03 - 6:12)
Ruth: I think one of someone, perhaps pap's mother's friends. I think I was trying to see if that's what she had on, but I can't. I don't think so.

(6:12 - 6:20)
Ruth: And I look at her ruffle up there. So no, I don't think so. 

Alexis: Did you guys make, it sounds like you guys made a lot of your own clothes, like as a community.

(6:24 - 6:28)
Ruth: Aunt Betty was a sewer. The girls were sewers. They were excellent sewers.

(6:28 - 6:35)
Ruth: I mean, like they made winter coats and everything. Aunt Bertha was an excellent sewer. I got into sewing.

(6:35 - 7:11)
Ruth: When your mother went to first grade, I made a good bit of clothes that she wore. And she came home from school one time and she told me, she said, you can tell my clothes are homemade. And I'm wondering why, how does she know where that was coming from? Then when the school picture with all the kids came home, then I understood why she said that, because the little girls, most of them, they had long pants that came to the waist with elastic and t-shirts.

(7:11 - 7:25)
Ruth: And your mother had dresses and pantsuits and things that I made her. 

Alexis: Unique stuff. 

Tom: Fancy stuff.

Ruth: Yeah, it was more like, I guess, along the dressier line.

(7:26 - 7:41)
Ruth: And you know, her pantsuits, I remember she had, I had a piece of material. She wanted something made from it and I did not have enough material. And so what I did was I, it was like red and blue.

(7:42 - 8:02)
Ruth: And so I, I guess I matched up the red, whatever, but I got a piece of red and I think I made her pants top with a plaid. And then the back of it was all red, in red pants. So I used it.

(8:03 - 8:17)
Ruth: I made, even for myself, I made three different gowns. Two of them when I was pregnant with Dana. 

Tom: I used to modify the patterns.

(8:18 - 8:33)
Tom: Remember? 

Ruth: That was, I, you would help me with lining up the plaids and that kind of stuff. 

Tom: I remember cutting the paper.

Ruth: That was for Eileen. That was not for me.

(8:33 - 8:48)
Ruth: I had a friend that was heavy set and I was making things for her and I had to extend the pattern with newspaper and that's what he's talking about. Helping me do all that. I made her pants that she could wear. She was heavyset.

(8:49 - 9:13)
Alexis: She wasn't able to buy them in the store? 

Ruth: Yeah-

Tom: Hard to find. Hard to find.

Alexis: because it's still hard, it's still hard to find sizes sometimes. 

Ruth: So I made her pants and I know one of her sisters-in-law hemmed them and she told me to leave them longer, which I know I didn't have much on the bottom. And it just hit me now, I wonder why I didn't have a lot on the bottom.

(9:13 - 10:35)
Ruth: It's because I needed, needed other places. But I, yeah, I'm pretty proud of those pants that I made for her that she was able to wear. And I made your mother a couple of dresses and I would go with Pap's mother and they'd go to a material store and then it would be the cheapest pieces and that that you'd bought. 

And I made your mother a dress that I think had like a plain aqua top and a skirt that has blended in the color aqua, but it wasn't just plain material. And I put a band rather than a collar around the neck and I don't remember if you have a picture of her with that from school. And another one I remember I made for her was like a pattern, a burgundy color, which I don't know if it had lines in it or what, something. 

And the top is just plain white. And then I took an iron-on thing that you could iron on and I put up on the front there and her left side, I guess I put an applique, an iron-on applique. I might have put bands on the sleeves too to match the skirt.

(10:38 - 14:31)
Ruth: I made your mother a velour dress and velour pants and they had lace and buttons up around here. I might have put lace around the neck. Some of the stuff I wish I would have kept. 

I made an Easter outfit for her a dress and then a coat. I lined the coat, had never done that before, lined the coat and she had that when you were little, but your dad did not want you to wear it. It was a chartreuse green and navy. 

Alexis: Is that why he didn't want me to wear it because of the color? 

Ruth: I think it was the colors. I think yeah, there was nothing wrong with how it looked. Yeah, I think that was, he wasn't. 

Alexis: He's like, we're not bringing the neon green baby to church. 

Ruth: It wasn't that bad. No, and this was, she was walking and she was a little girl. 
 
Alexis: If you want, we could go through the scrapbooks and I could keep track of all, like if you want, we could go through the scrapbooks and if you think it's an outfit you made for mom, I could take a picture of it. I could make a compilation of all the ones that you made sometime. 

Ruth: I have one picture of her and Uncle Chris was taken professionally. 

I know I have that. And the top she has on, I made. It wasn't that double knit material, which I did a lot of sewing with that. 

But, and the pants were like a pink and the top had some colors, pink and I guess some blue. That I do know I have on a picture. I have a picture of her with that navy velour dress and long pants that I made, right? Do you have a picture of that? And when I was pregnant with Aunt Dana, I made a number of my clothes too, maternity tops and pants. 

Alexis: Was it easy to find maternity clothes? 

Ruth: I guess I want to say so, but I, when I got pregnant with your mother, it was winter and I didn't gain a lot of weight. And I wasn't, I guess, I didn't spend a lot of money on maternity clothes and it was winter. And I remember around the apartment, I just wore my pants before I was pregnant and on the side, they hooked on the side, took a rubber band to give me that expansion that I needed. 

And I hooked them with a rubber band and then I just wore one of my blouses and if it didn't shut and come down, I just didn't. It was around the house. And then I bought, I think I bought one pair of pants, one maternity top that were, I think I probably paid like a dollar or less each. 

And okay, Aunt Betty made me those two dresses. And then for his Christmas party at U.S. Steel, I did buy a maternity dress that had white lace from like up over the shoulders and the sleeve, the bodice, not the whole bodice, not down to the waist. It was just white lace and everything was just plain black then. 

And I know someone that knew I was pregnant at the Christmas party asked me how I was doing it all. And the person went in like, what's wrong with you? And it's like, I'm pregnant. I was like four months pregnant and she couldn't tell it. 

I only gained twelve and a half pounds. I did well. But yeah, I made, I made a dress.

(14:31 - 15:28)
Ruth: I think I have it on on a picture of Gail's bridal shower. 

Tom: Back in those days, you used everything around. You were more creative than the people are today. 

Ruth: I made myself, I know, two dresses, I think. And I know I made myself a pair of shorts on top. I made myself two different pants on top. 

And I remember I had one on that had the navy pants and the blue print top when we walked into church down St. Joe's. And what was his nickname that lived right next door to us in the apartment? 

Tom: Zero. 

Ruth: Zero. 

He said, he saw me and I think he said to you, not again, Tom. 

Tom: I only had one daughter. 

Ruth: Yeah. 

