---
layout: item
format: Photograph
title: Tom and Ruth Demko Wedding Portrait
author: "unknown"
contributor: "Tom and Ruth Demko"
group: 
creator: "unknown"
externalurl:
embedurl: 
creationdate: "ca.1968"
type: "Physical Object"
shortdesc: "This is a portrait of Tom Demko and Ruth Demko née Connell on their wedding day in 1968."
contributorquote: 
categories: [ Ruth Demko, Tom Demko, 1960s ]
tags: [ Demko Family ]
teammember: Alexis Shoulta
---

## About This Item

This is a picture from Tom Demko and Ruth Demko née Connell's wedding on June 29th, 1968. They were married at [St. Joseph's Church](https://www.loc.gov/item/pa2416/) in Johnstown, Pennsylvania.[^1] 

Tom and Ruth recall that they were married on a beautiful sunny day. They each had four attendants. The luncheon was held at the house of Tom’s sister, Betty. The days leading up to the wedding had many mishaps. Most memorably, Tom forgot to organize transportation for Ruth to get to the church. One of Ruth’s sister’s friends found Ruth’s Brother-in-law’s car keys and drove her to the church in the car.

Ruth bought her wedding dress for 110 dollars.

## Discussion of the Item With the Contributor

(0:02 - 0:21)
Alexis Shoulta: Okay, so this is your wedding picture, right? 

Ruth Demko: Mm-hmm. 

Alexis: Can you tell me some more details about... 

Ruth: Tom, if you're going to go to sleep, you might as well go in the family room. If you want to be a part of this, that's a picture of our wedding...like in the family room.

(0:21 - 0:38)
Ruth: It's on the chest in the family room. She wants some information about the day. Like, it was... 

Tom Demko: Sunny? 

Ruth: Yeah, I was just going to say that.

(0:38 - 0:43)
Ruth: It was a sunny day. 

Tom: Not hot. 

Ruth: Yeah, that's what I was going to say.

(0:43 - 0:48)
Alexis: And then which day was it again? 

Tom: Saturday. 

Alexis: No, date, sorry. 

Tom: The 29th.

(0:48 - 0:51)
Ruth June two nine. Yeah, okay. See, he's telling you.

(0:52 - 1:01)
Ruth: June 29th, 1968. We got married at noon. 

Tom: In St. Joseph's church.

(1:03 - 1:19)
Ruth: There were four attendants, each. There were the Maid of Honor and three bridesmaids.

Tom: Do you want their names?

Ruth: Pardon? 

Tom: Lexie, do you want their names? 

Alexis: Sure.

(1:21 - 1:33)
Tom: Camillus Long, Harold Snyder, Herm, and... 

Ruth: Yeah, well, what's Herm's last name. 

Tom: ...oh graff. 

Ruth: And? 

Tom: Charlie Demko. 

Ruth: Okay.

(1:33 - 1:39)
Ruth: I thought you were going to name the women, because that's what we were talking about. 

Tom: There was Dottie and Rose. 

Ruth: Their last names.

(1:40 - 1:57)
Dottie Sheriff, and Rose Sanuta. 

Alexis: So, Dottie, Rose, and one more, right? 

Tom: Two more. There were four men and four women.

(1:59 - 2:06)
Ruth: Oh, come on, Tom. There were my sister and your sister. 

Alexis: The two most important.

(2:06 - 2:14)
Ruth: The two sisters he can't remember. Yes, your sister and Camillus. My sister and Herm.

(2:17 - 2:28)
Ruth: And Rose and Dottie and Harold and Charlie. 

Alexis: Which sister was it? 

Ruth: Anne. 

Alexis: And was Mary Jo in the convent by then? Yeah.

(2:28 - 2:47)
Alexis: So was she not able to come to the wedding? 

Ruth: She was there, and her friend, and we were acquainted with her, too. I can't remember what her religious name was. But she did eventually leave the convent, and she did come to our house and visit us after she married and had children.

(2:48 - 3:00)
Ruth: I think I have a picture of her in our living room back there in Pennsylvania. 

Alexis: So was Anne Mary Jo not a bridesmaid because she was a nun? 

Ruth: I guess so. I never thought about it.

(3:01 - 3:09)
Ruth: I don't think, anyhow. 

Tom: We try to match up husband and wife. 

Ruth: Yeah, but they weren't matched up husband and wife.

(3:09 - 3:30)
Ruth: Because Rose's husband and Dottie's husband, neither one were in the wedding, and so they couldn't be matched up with their husbands. I forgot what I was going to say. Son of a gun.

Alexis: How about you talk about the day? 

Ruth: Like we said, it was sunny.

(3:30 - 3:41)
Ruth: It was a beautiful day. We had the wedding ceremony. We went up to Aunt Betty's house, which is not the one that you would have seen.

(3:41 - 4:11)
Ruth: It was a previous house, a smaller one. We had lunch in there, and she had the tables set up in the garage, and you came out in all the yard, and we took pictures in the yard, greenery around. She had one of her sisters-in-law from Uncle Camillus' side serve us, and so Aunt Betty didn't have to do that.

(4:12 - 4:36)
Ruth: It was a nice luncheon, and I thought we were trying to get all the people from out of state, and I forgot all about my Uncle Bill to have him stop too. Aunt Ruth was there. We thought of her, and someone would have had to take her because she didn't drive, so I don't know how we worked that out, but I felt bad.

(4:36 - 4:43)
Ruth: I didn't think of that because I was thinking out-of-state people. 

Alexis: There's a lot to plan for a wedding. 

Tom: Yes.

(4:46 - 5:02)
Ruth: And when it was originally, I was told by Pap's mother that we had to do something at lunch for the people from out of town because I wasn't planning anything. I was having the wedding and the reception. That was it.

(5:03 - 5:25)
Ruth: And she said, "and you can make," and I said, "my mother has Parkinson's, and she will not be making anything, and I do not know how to cook." So I don't know what Grandma, what Pap's mother did, or what Aunt Betty did, or what any of that. 

Tom: I think Aunt Bertha was involved with that too, wasn't she? 

Ruth: Oh, I don't know about that.

(5:25 - 5:31)
Ruth: Not in the planning, so I don't know what they. 

tom: No, was she serving or? 

Ruth: She didn't serve, I don't think. No, I don't think Aunt Bertha.

(5:31 - 5:39)
Ruth: I can't remember Aunt Martha being there. 

Tom: Oh, okay. 

Ruth: So I don't know who actually made the food.

(5:39 - 6:04)
Ruth: It was a nice luncheon they had, and everything was very nice. Aunt Betty, I'm guessing, took charge and arranged everything. Then we had the evening reception, and I remember when we got there for the reception, there was a couple sitting there waiting for us, and we knew them, and they had just gotten married, what was it, a month before us.

(6:05 - 6:19)
Ruth: They were only married about a month or six weeks before us. And as it turned out, she had three girls, and a couple of her girls were around Karen's and Uncle Chris' birth times. Their ages were similar.

(6:22 - 6:42)
Alexis: Where did you get ready? Did you get ready at the church for the wedding? 

Ruth: No, I got ready at home. 

Tom: I forgot to get Ruthie down there. 

Ruth: Aunt Betty came to the house, and I can remember she was walking up the stairs, and we didn't have doors or privacy, and I was walking in to get my bath.

(6:43 - 6:59)
Ruth: But I had been to the beauty shop earlier, and my hair was all fixed, and my makeup, and I was all done from the head up. I just had to get a bath. You want to believe this? I was due to start my period the day of the wedding.

(7:01 - 7:11)
Ruth: Fortunately, I started the day before, so any cramps or anything like that were done. So, you know, I had all that to deal with. So I got a bath at the last minute.

(7:12 - 7:34)
Alexis: With your makeup on and your hair done? 

Ruth: Uh-huh. I had that all done. 

Tom: It was an old Clawfoot bathtub, right? 

Ruth: I guess it was Clawfoot. I don't know. It was, you know. Pap was not good at this stuff.

(7:34 - 7:41)
Tom: I was still hillbilly. 

Ruth: Yes, he was. 

Alexis: I thought you were a Mount William.

(7:42 - 7:52)
Tom: No, I wasn't a Mount Williams. 

Ruth: I don't know if he wasn't a Mount Williams yet. The night before the rehearsal, my parents, you know, it wasn't the parents of the groom.

(7:52 - 8:03)
Ruth: My parents had stuff at the house that they could stop in and could eat and did everything. 

Alexis: In Johnstown? Like (downtown?)[https://www.loc.gov/item/pa2326/] [^2] 

Ruth: At my mother's house where we lived. It was small.

(8:03 - 8:12)
Ruth: It was small. They all went home. No one came to the house.

(8:13 - 8:44)
Ruth: He didn't pick me up to take me down. Sometimes when I reminisce about these things, it's like, why did I marry? How did I stick with him through all of this? A lot of women wouldn't. 

Alexis: Because you didn't have a phone where you could call him immediately and be like, what did you do? If Gabe didn't show up, he would be getting immediately called from me, like, where are you? 

Ruth: I'm waiting at the house the morning of the service.

(8:46 - 8:56)
Ruth: All dressed in my gown. I'm standing in the living room and they're coming looking in the door to see me and all. And I'm waiting and I'm waiting and I'm waiting.

(8:57 - 9:25)
Ruth: He didn't think to tell anyone, whoever it was, to come up to the house and pick me up. 

Tom: So a sister in Herm's car brought you down. 

Ruth: My brother-in-law and my sister Anne, they had left there at the house their Chevrolet station wagon that they had come from Delaware in, because they lived in Delaware, that they drove with their five kids and all.

(9:28 - 9:54)
Ruth: And this sister, Ethel, that was Aunt Mary Jo's friend that came with her, our wedding was the first wedding that Ethel had ever been to. 

Alexis: Let me make sure it's recording. Yeah, okay. Sorry. 

Ruth: It had been the first wedding that she had ever been to. And they weren't wearing the long habits, but they had a veil and a suit type stuff on.

(9:56 - 10:03)
Ruth: And finally, as she said, we're waiting and waiting, and finally she says, come on, I'm taking you. And she got the key. I don't know how, why, the keys, whatever.

(10:04 - 10:21)
Ruth: She got the keys in harm's station wagon and drove me down to the church. 

Lexie: Nuns get the job done. I'm surprised. You probably could have walked. I mean, you wouldn't have wanted to because of the white dress, but it was close enough. 

Ruth: I was close enough I could have walked, but in a gown, a wedding gown.

(10:21 - 10:39)
Alexis: It'd be quite a spectacle. 

Ruth: And whenever I was walking into the church from the vehicle, I mean, the wind was blowing, my veil was up here, but it was blowing out. 

Alexis: Where did you get your dress from? 

Ruth: I think it was called Janine's.

(10:40 - 10:46)
Ruth: I was trying to think at first, and then it hit me. I think it was called Janine's. It was a small place up on a second story.

(10:47 - 10:58)
Alexis: In Johnstown? 

Ruth: Yeah, it was downtown, but it was an old-fashioned place. But I think she had a good reputation. And that's where I didn't try too many gowns on.

(10:59 - 11:14)
Ruth: And I remember Rose, who was in the wedding, and I was in hers. I can remember her looking at me when I tried it on, and all she had to do was shake her head, yes. And that was this one, and that's the one I bought.

(11:14 - 11:29)
Alexis: Do you remember how much you paid for it? 

Ruth: I went to say about $110, which back then that would have been. 

Tom: That was a lot of money. 

Alexis: Oh, that was a lot of money.

(11:29 - 11:34)
Tom: That's a week's salary. 

Alexis: That's a lot of money. I'm just thinking about how much dresses cost today.

(11:34 - 11:51)
Ruth: Yeah, that's why I think you're laughing at that and that. But if you think way back, how many, 57 years ago, it would be like more for 58 because I didn't buy it at the last minute. And when I said that to you, it was like, yeah, I paid a good bit of money for that gown.

(11:53 - 12:09)
Ruth: And the headpiece wasn't the style that people were wearing at the time. And that had to be ordered. But it was something different, and I chose that one.

(12:09 - 12:17)
Ruth: I like that one. And that's what your mother wore, too. Only they had new netting put on it.

(12:23 - 12:27)
Alexis: No, it's fine. It's still recording. This is the one my mom wore, too.

(12:27 - 12:33)
Ruth: Yes, but she wore it totally different. 

Alexis: Yeah, I don't remember those bows. 

Ruth: Yeah, there were things that came out.

(12:33 - 12:42)
Ruth: This was the way it was supposed to be worn. But she wore it across the back. Her hair up and had it across the back of the veil.

(12:42 - 12:54)
Ruth: But you wouldn't know that it wasn't worn the way it was intended. It looked fine for your mother. 

Alexis: Where'd you get your suit from, Pap? 

Tom: We didn't have tuxedos.

(12:55 - 13:00)
Tom: No, we didn't have tuxedos. 

Alexis: You're wearing a white blazer. 

Tom: I don't remember that.

(13:02 - 13:11)
Alexis: Pap just combed his hair, put on his suit, and came to the church that day. 

Ruth: They were Tuxes, rentals. He had the white jacket.

(13:13 - 13:20)
Ruth: I don't remember where he bought them. I don't think there were too many shops around. I don't remember.

(13:21 - 13:34)
Alexis: Did you guys, like, you had your reception, and then did you guys leave right away for your honeymoon? 

Ruth: We had to go back to the house. And change clothes. And I think I had to finish up packing up my suitcase.

(13:34 - 13:52)
Ruth: And I can remember, I guess the reception had totally ended and my family came and was coming back. And I remember my ex-brother-in-law now, well, he's deceased. 

Alexis: Ex-deceased brother-in-law? 

Ruth: He said something to us about, like, you know, get out of here.

(13:54 - 14:04)
Ruth: We went to a place about a half an hour away for the night. And the next day we went to Mass. I don't remember what we did about breakfast or whatever.

(14:04 - 14:09)
Ruth: I don't remember that. But then we got in the car and we drove to New York. 

Tom: Niagara Falls.

(14:10 - 14:23)
Ruth: We went to Niagara Falls. 

Alexis: Did you spend your whole honeymoon at Niagara Falls? 

Tom: No, we went around to Great Lakes. 

Ruth: We spent... 

Tom: One week in Niagara Falls and one week going around.

(14:23 - 14:42)
Tom: Lake Huron, up between Lake Superior, Lake Michigan. Came down the west side of Lake Michigan. Stopped at... What was that place that everybody used to stop at? 

Ruth: We came back into the States from Canada.

(14:42 - 14:52)
Ruth: We came back into the States at Sault Ste Marie. 

Alexis: You guys went to Canada? 

Ruth: We went to Niagara Falls, New York. And spent four or five days there.

(14:52 - 15:06)
Ruth: And then we went up in Toronto for Niagara Falls, Canada. And realized we should have spent more time in Canada. But Pap planned the honeymoon.

(15:09 - 15:14)
Tom: Lake Geneva. We stopped at Lake Geneva. 

Ruth: Yeah, we stopped at Lake Geneva.

(15:14 - 15:22)
Tom: Mrs. Sievers' cottage on Round Lake. And then we stopped at Mrs. Sievers' place. She gave us her bedroom for the night.

(15:23 - 15:29)
Ruth: I don't remember that. 

Tom: It was two twins together. It was a king size.

(15:30 - 15:33)
Ruth: I don't remember. 

Tom: I don't remember where she slept that night. 

Ruth: I don't remember that.

(15:33 - 15:37)
Tom: or Mr. Sievers. I kept saying, no, no. She says, yes, yes.

(15:38 - 15:49)
Tom: She was dominant. She always won. 

Ruth: Okay, so what else did we do? 

Tom: We went up to Valparaiso and saw Kay and Jack.

(15:49 - 15:57)
Ruth: Kay Mooney. Yep, we stopped on our honeymoon in Valparaiso. They were living there at the time.

(16:00 - 16:09)

Ruth: We stopped in Ohio overnight. 

Alexis: So how long was your honeymoon in total? 

Tom: Two weeks. Two weeks.

(16:11 - 16:19)
Tom: The last couple of days, maybe. 

Ruth: The last couple of days, what? 

Tom: Maybe, I don't know. It wasn't 14 days.

(16:20 - 16:33)
Tom: Because we had to go back to work. 

Ruth: And while we were on our honeymoon and we were in Toronto, he had talked to me about he wanted to go to sleep. Let me drive.

(16:35 - 16:45)
Ruth: And I didn't want him to do that. But I agreed to drive. So I'm out on the highway in Toronto. Canada.

(16:46 - 16:55)
Ruth: And he gets in that passenger seat. It was a bench seat. You know what I mean by a bench seat? It's one solid seat across.

(16:55 - 17:14)
Ruth: Not bucket seats. He started reaching around to get comfortable to go to sleep. And in his process of moving around, the whole seat went back.

(17:15 - 17:31)
Ruth: And then I could not reach the pedals. And so I had to grab ahold of that steering wheel and pull myself forward on the seat far enough to be able to get to the pedals. And gratefully there was not a lot of traffic and it was a good place for me to pull off.

(17:32 - 17:42)
Ruth: Pulled off the road. And I said to him, that's it, I'm done. And I got out of that driver's seat.

(17:42 - 17:56)
Alexis: You really screwed your nap for yourself, Pap. 

Tom: It's still [unintelligible] hillbilly. 

Ruth: Yeah, I had to get that hillbilly stuff out of him.

## External Resource Citations

[^1]: Historic American Buildings Survey, Creator, Walter Myton, Kim E Wallace, Sponsor America'S Industrial Heritage Project, Jeffrey Hickey, and Alison K Hoagland, Lowe, Jet, photographer. St. Stephen's Slovak Catholic Church, 414 Fourth Avenue, Johnstown, Cambria County, PA. Pennsylvania Cambria County Johnstown, 1933. translateds by Wallace, Kmitter Documentation Compiled After. Photograph. https://www.loc.gov/item/pa2416/.

[^2]: Historic American Buildings Survey, Creator, Cambria Iron Company, Joseph Johns, Kim E Wallace, Sponsor America'S Industrial Heritage Project, Terri L Hartman, and Alison K Hoagland, Lowe, Jet, photographer. Downtown Neighborhood, Johnstown, Cambria County, PA. Johnstown Pennsylvania Cambria County, 1933. translateds by Wallace, Kimmitter Documentation Compiled After. Photograph. https://www.loc.gov/item/pa2326/.
