---
title: Essays
layout: page
permalink: /about
---

# History Analysis Essay

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque faucibus ex sapien vitae pellentesque sem placerat. In id cursus mi pretium tellus duis convallis. Tempus leo eu aenean sed diam urna tempor. Pulvinar vivamus fringilla lacus nec metus bibendum egestas. Iaculis massa nisl malesuada lacinia integer nunc posuere. Ut hendrerit semper vel class aptent taciti sociosqu. Ad litora torquent per conubia nostra inceptos himenaeos.


## Works Cited
Footnotes will format to the very bottom of this page

# Project Methodology

## Introduction:
A few years ago, my mother decided that she would begin driving her parents back to their hometown of Johnstown, Pennsylvania at least once a year. They were growing older, and she wanted them to spend more time with their remaining family. During the summer of 2023, I joined them on one of these trips back. Although I had made the trip to Johnstown many times, for family reunions, funerals, and stops on road trips to Pittsburgh, I had never made the entirety of the trip alongside my grandparents. Feeling the weight of the passage of time, I was determined to not waste what might be my last opportunity to see Pennsylvania through their eyes. 

Growing up, my connection to the city of Johnstown felt more like an inherited memory than a genuine understanding. It was a place built in my mind across a kitchen table, or on the floor of my grandparents’ living room. My grandfather’s relatives are the only ones who still live there, so the limited time I did spend in Johnstown was on the periphery, up in the mountains. If I had ever had the opportunity to go into the town before that point, I couldn’t recall it. 

The Johnstown of reality, and not my borrowed memories, is a city that has lost its economic heart. Retracing my grandparents’ steps with them as they took in their home after decades of decline from the last time, they saw it was painful. The church they were married in is now closed and empty, but the house my grandmother grew up in is still there. Rather than celebrating the memories of the past, it was nearly silent in our car as we mourned them.

After we left Johnstown, the gaps in the story I knew of my family’s experiences continued to bother me. Although I had been told story after story of my family’s struggles with unemployment, poverty, and the eventual displacement that resulted from both, I had never been told the story through the lens of deindustrialization. Growing up removed from the Rust Belt, I had not realized that the scale of my family’s experiences was more than just that of one company, or town or industry. Voyages through family history, even painful history, had always been with the benefit of hindsight, and I didn’t have enough appreciation for the ways that visiting a landscape that should be familiar and finding you can’t recognize it can be traumatizing.

So, when I began my history honors capstone project, I took the opportunity to journey further into this facet of my family I did not fully understand. My project aimed to reconcile both the stories I had been told with the wider historical context they were created within. As I learned about deindustrialization, I recognized that I was more interested in the stories of people and their perceptions than the sequence of events that caused steel to leave the United States, or the statistics of people leaving the town. I decided to pursue oral history to honor the stories that my grandparents told me, as well as to find their place among the history of Johnstown.


## Why a digital archive?
In “Brownfield Public History: Arts and Heritage in the Aftermath of Deindustrialization” Stephen High, reflecting on the historical memory of deindustrialized cities asks, “Can oral and public history become a catalyst for public reflection, dialogue, and even political action?”[^1] Across the course of completing this project, I have come to believe that the answer is yes. This project pursued treating digital archiving as a form of public history practice rather than solely as a repository for digital materials. By treating the archive itself as a public-facing interpretive space, I was able to consider not only what and how stories would be preserved, but also how they would be encountered. 

Oral history is an extraordinary medium as well as an effective approach to collecting primary sources. To record an oral history is the capture of people’s memory, feelings, and life experiences in their most direct human expression. Therefore, one of my primary goals for this project was to create an oral history collection within a non-extractive and community-oriented framework. It was important to me that the primary sources I collected for my thesis would not be kept as an inaccessible resource many states away from the community they originated from. I wanted my research and collection to be accessible to every person who might be represented within it, from the people in Johnstown, to those who were displaced by its decline.

As I’ve conceptualized this project, I have thought about how I would want my creation to be used and accessed as a digital resource. Building a platform on GitHub creates new opportunities for historical synthesis of a variety of resources, and to present a multimedia study of a place and the people within it. For example, Karen Shoulta, when discussing what Johnstown looked like after the steel mill closure states, “there would be no cars in the parking lot, and they had, um, these, like, spinning gates that, um, I don't know what they're called, but they go like this, so when you walk through, they spin.”[^2] In a digital format, I can link to a photograph from the Library of Congress depicting turnstiles at a Bethlehem Steel mill in Johnstown. The digital platform gives me as the historian the ability to make easily accessible connections for viewers between primary sources held in different repositories. And this potential doesn’t have to be limited to primary sources, in the essay where I talk about secondary sources I can also directly embed links for a reader to access the source I am referencing. Additionally, because I integrated a page on my platform for publishing my methodological decision making and my historical analysis of collected materials, I can link inside my essay back to the exact records published on the archive. 

Digital platforms also create a greater opportunity for accessibility for people who have differing types of physical and financial ability. As this archive lives entirely online, it can be accessed by anybody with an internet connection. This stands in contrast to many archives that do not have digital collections or only have oral history summaries available online. As a person whose health continues to challenge their ability to travel as a historian, including with this project, this was incredibly important to me to include in my work for others. It is also why I have transcribed all the interviews and added closed captioning to all the YouTube videos of my work. Although this does not entirely remove the financial barriers of entry to history education and research, I believe that open-source digital resources have the potential to remove significant boundaries that exist within the field today.

[^1]:  High, “Brownfield Public History,” 435.

[^2]: Karen Shoulta Oral History, at (6:50-13:53).

## Building the Digital Archive
This project encouraged me to think beyond the paradigm of traditional historical research framework. For my project, constructing a digital archive functioned not only as a distribution method for original research, but as a form of methodological labor. The UI design choices for the archive serve as historical storytelling mechanisms, as well as navigational, interpretive, and organizational tools for the viewer. Working with GitHub allowed me to think as a traditional historian alongside being a builder of digital infrastructure.

I was introduced to the digital resources I would use to build this archive by Dr. Kalani Craig and Indiana University’s Initiative for Digital Arts and Humanities (IDAH). Going into this project I had experience working on the metadata cleaning of oral histories, but limited experience with creating oral histories and maintaining them in digital repositories. Additionally, I had little experience working with content management systems, GitHub, and Markdown.

To learn more about digital community archives I completed an independent reading course with Dr. Craig where I learned about ethical debates in public digital history and modern methodology for conducting community based archival work. Utilizing the Digital Arc open-source demo repository, I was able to create a custom website to keep, archive and publish my materials. To do this I forked the website on GitHub and customized its structure, metadata schema, and interface to meet my projects specific needs. To develop and manage this website I had to learn how to use Markdown based metadata, and how digital systems rendered content fields, and how to resolve code-based issues affecting how content was displayed and linked. 

Since my site has been constructed, I have completed hundreds of actions and workflow runs on the website to build a collection of fourteen records.[^3] For each record uploaded to the site I have created and modified an item file and an asset file. Each item file contains object metadata and a summary of the item. For some of the photographs, I have also included discussion transcripts between myself and the contributors discussing them. For the oral history interviews, each interview contains an interview summary, and a complete transcription. For all these items and asset files I created a name and number system for photographs and oral histories. Best practices, such as what a museum would use would have these classifications be entirely numerical, however for my project and the scale it is at I wanted to be able to identify quickly and easily who each object originated from the backend.

Other decisions and systems I had to create for my project were metadata schemes for my items. I decided that I wanted people to be able to navigate my content by decade, people and families, industry, object type, and if the story featured economic displacement. However, I used a relatively limited controlled vocabulary for the tags. I also prioritized users being able to separately sort media by type. Because the project was conceptualized to include the histories of multiple families, I included on the backend, tags for each family. If the archive grew larger, I would switch the family collection metadata to be front end, and the individual person category metadata to be back end for simplicity of use. If the project in the future expands further, I plan to include location tags as well. 

[^3]: Shoulta, “Johnstown Oral Histories Github Actions.”

## Conceptualizing Oral History
Because this project relied heavily on oral histories, it required careful consideration of how those histories could be shaped by relationships, memory, ethics, and power. Conducting interviews with family members in particular raised questions about positionality and the boundaries between lived experiences and personal analysis.

In her essay “Making Sense of Oral History,” Linda Shopes analyzes the impact of positionality on oral histories and how historians should utilize oral history in their research. She states, 
>"The questions of the interviewer, deriving from a particular frame of reference or historical >interest, elicit certain responses from the narrator, deriving from that person’s frame of reference, that >person’s sense of what is important or what he or she thinks is important to tell the interviewer…Oral history affords the historian a way to negotiate this paradox and perhaps helps surmount the barrier >separating the analytic work of the professional historian >from vernacular efforts at history-making."[^4]

For my oral history project, the positionality of my research is based on family and friend relationships. I have close relationships with my mother and my grandparents, and I am familiar with the stories they told me in the interviews. Although I am not as close with Joyce, she is my mother’s friend and she has watched me grow up, even if from afar. I believe that my relationships gave me the opportunity to get much more honest and comfortable interviews with these individuals than a person who interviewed them as a stranger. However, it also introduced its own complications into my project process. 

Sometimes when I went over to my grandparents’ house for an interview session, I would get the sense that it wasn’t a good day for an interview. It was important to me that they didn’t feel like I was only interested in spending time with them for school. So, this meant that collecting my oral histories with them took longer than I initially thought they would. Sometimes in the interviews we used family terms reflexively when recollecting or when the questions were not pre-formulated. Additionally, because my grandparents' oral histories were conducted with their granddaughter, I would often have to have them qualify statements they made that assumed knowledge of our family structure, or presumed familiarity with a concept or story. Because of these issues, I intervened in my archiving of these records more heavily than I would have with strangers. I reconciled the familiarity for the digital archive by including notes on the transcripts explaining who nicknames refer to, the relationship between the interviewer and the interviewee and adding notes to the interview summaries.

In addition to the considerations of positionality I made when conceptualizing my project, I completed an IRB to be able to carry the project out. This required me to complete online research ethics training and submit my proposed project to Indiana University for revision and approval. For the IRB I created forms for my interviewees to complete verify their participation in an academic study and release forms for publishing of their materials. I also created potential promotional samples for reviewing and submitting the structured interview questions of the semi-structured interviews I conducted. Additionally, this has modified the structure of my project to include data privacy structures such as encrypted storage practices. 

[^4]: Shopes, “Making Sense of Oral History – Oral History in the Digital Age.”

## Project Participant Selection	
I have always wanted this project to be rooted in my family history, however when I originally envisioned the project it expanded further beyond them to include other people's experiences in Johnstown. My original idea was a snowball method of finding people to interview. This did happen a little bit, with my mother and her friend Joyce. There was also potential to tap into Joyce’s connections in Johnstown for interviews, and other members of my mother’s high school community, however in the end I did not pursue further interviews in Johnstown.

As I’ve learned throughout this project, collecting oral histories, processing them, and publishing them is a very time-intensive process. If I had collected on a larger scale, I originally envisioned at the length of interviews I was conducting I would have struggled to properly clean and maintain that quantity of material. 

Additionally, I believe that analyzing the experiences of two parents in contrast with the experiences of two children is a good balance for comparing the perspectives of separate generations about that time. When I knew that I was going to do fewer interviews I considered doing the fourth with my uncle and keeping the interviews entirely based on my family’s perceptions. However, that would have made the scope of the project narrower than I wanted. I think the inclusion of Joyce’s interview provides a good primary source outside context to the interviews from my family members and provides a sense of what experiences were community level versus what might be personal to my family.


## Interview Procedure
Before conducting my interviews, I reviewed both the release form and study information sheet with the interviewees to explain the interview process, how I would manage their interview, their rights as an interviewee and to establish how they wanted their materials to be collected and preserved. After reviewing these materials, if the interview was in-person I had the interviewee choose a location in their house with a comfortable chair somewhere with good lighting. If the interview was over Zoom, I verified that they were okay with the location before beginning. 

The interviews with people who were children during Deindustrialization went according to plan. I used the semi-structured format outlined in my IRB with no problems. However, for the interviews with my grandparents, I felt that the first oral history with the semi-structured format felt tense and nervous compared to our typical conversations. I believe the documentation we completed beforehand added some stress to the interview. So, I conducted a second follow up oral history later using a less structured format than the previous time. Although, I think the lack of structure gave their interviews more of a chance to go off topic, I believe that the more relaxed nature of the questions and answers provided valuable insights to the original interview. 

Additionally, before I conducted my second interview with my grandparents, I recorded discussions between us about photographs that they were contributing to the archive. I believe the format of showing them a photo and asking them to talk about it provided a primer to the interview that helped them adjust to the question-and-answer format. After receiving their permission, I integrated these discussions as transcripts alongside the photographs to provide further historical context for the events depicted.

Following the interviews I uploaded the videos from my phone to the encrypted hard drive. I then uploaded the videos to YouTube and published them as unlisted. 


## Metadata Cleaning and Archival Processing
For the oral history records, uploading the video recordings was only the beginning of the process of getting them archival ready. Each oral history was then edited in YouTube to remove gaps from the beginning and end of each interview, as well as remove personal information my grandparents said on camera. For each published video I wrote a detailed interview summary of its contents and transcribed the interview for accessibility and citation purposes. For each photographic record that had a discussion component, I also transcribed and published a transcript of the oral recording. Outside of analysis this was the most time-intensive component of my project, as each interview had to be listened to multiple times, and the combined runtime of the oral histories discussions is approximately four hours, five if the discussion recordings of the photographs are included.

For the outside citation component, I primarily included photographs from a few specific archives. For pictures of architectural structures, such as businesses and buildings in Johnstown, and architectural photographs of the steel mills I used the Library of Congress’ Historic American Engineering Record collection. For photographs of the steel industry in active production, I utilized the National Museum of Industrial History’s Bethlehem Steel Corporation Photo Collection’s Johnstown Plant subcollection. For additional photographs, I used the Pennsylvania Highlands Community College - Iron, Coal, and Steel Industry Collection hosted by the State Library of Pennsylvania’s digital POWER Library.

I selected these sources based on a few criteria. First, I wanted any resource I linked to the archive to have archival quality available metadata and structure. For this reason, I excluded photographs that I found on social media or in postcard collecting communities. Although this did prevent me from using only the only photographs I found for some concepts, and it meant the addition of outside resources was based more on institutions than direct from the community. I found those photographs to be less dependable for accuracy, especially with the growing use of AI on social media. Secondly, I wanted the photographs that I linked to the site to have the same purpose as the family photographs I archived on the site, to serve as visual contextualization for the stories being shared. Third, I wanted the photographs linked to the site to be plausibly as close to the original concept being described. If I inserted a picture of a mill, or workers they had to have been sourced from Johnstown, the highland region near Johnstown. This was also followed for any other locations I included photographs for.

Another component of the project that was time consuming was formatting the materials for the GitHub. Usually when I draft a paper or essay that requires citations, I use a citation manager. For the project, all citations and footnotes were added manually. I had to go through and format the links for Markdown, and then verify each link was embedded correctly. In general, because of the layout of the GitHub, verifying the metadata structure of each item is uniform takes time. It was also easy for me to make errors in the markdown formatting and have a citation footnote that does not render correctly. I spent a lot of time looking for these bugs and broken components when I was editing my website.


## Project Limitations and Continued Work Opportunities
 When I began working I had about four primary goals for my project. First, I wanted to collect and archive oral histories of my grandparents to better understand them, and my family. Second, I wanted to learn about and explain deindustrialization and its impacts on Johnstown, Pennsylvania as a community. Third, I wanted to create a digital archive where I could host an accessible collection of community memories such as oral histories and family photographs. Fourth, I wanted to execute a creative act of digital humanities, which implemented both the interpretive component of the history discipline and the information management component of library science. 

For the familial component of my project, I was successful in collecting and contextualizing their oral histories. I believe the oral histories collected and their accompanying images help to tell the story of my family. Referring to Stephen High, these interviews triggered important conversations among my friends and family and provided me with a better understanding of my own life experiences with them. If there was an improvement to be made in this section, I would add an oral history with my uncle, to complete the collection of perspectives from my family. I would also add more photographic materials from my family’s time in Terre Haute. 

 However, across the course of my project, it changed from fully fulfilling my original conception of what the archive would be. I originally wanted to collect a wide swath of material from people throughout Johnstown. Although I do have a perspective of from outside my family, I think to truly have a well-rounded perspective on Johnstown the archive would need more. I think that work still deserves to be done for the community, and in the future, I would like to work more with Joyce on fulfilling this component.

In building the Digital Arc component of this project, I believe I succeeded. I began working as almost a complete novice with website building. I had also never been in the position of constructing and leading an oral history project. Having completed six oral history interviews and having created an operational website where photographs and videos are accessible is an accomplishment of which I am proud. There are some improvements I would still like to make to the website. In the future I would like to restructure how metadata is visible on the front end, as well on the back end. I particularly would like to include a creation date under the authorship metadata. However, I would need to build more experience with HTML to fully customize the item pages.

Finally, I do think I succeeded in creating a project that embodies digital humanities. Although at various times my project has drifted more towards one discipline than the other, the completed project succeeds in having both interpretive and organizational components. I am especially excited about being able to connect my work with links to other resources. In the future, I would like to find even more integrative methods, I am not fully satisfied with putting an essay next to the archive. However, I think this project did a good job with my current physical and time-based constrictions as a student.


## Conclusion
This project demonstrates how digital archives and oral history can work together to preserve, interpret, and share historical experiences of deindustrialization. By centering memory, access and ethical collection practices, this archive serves not only as a research deliverable but as a form of public history engagement. Although its scale is limited, it contributes to the growing body of work on integrating digital humanities and documenting lived experiences.


## Works Cited
Footnotes format to the very bottom of the page.

High, Steven. “Brownfield Public History: Arts and Heritage in the Aftermath of Deindustrialization.” In The Oxford Handbook of Public History, edited by Paula Hamilton and James B. Gardner. Oxford University Press, 2017. [https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199766024.013.23.](https://academic-oup-com.proxyiub.uits.iu.edu/edited-volume/34632/chapter/295066421)

Shopes, Linda. “Making Sense of Oral History – Oral History in the Digital Age.” Institute of Museum and Library Services, n.d. Accessed January 27, 2025. [https://ohda.matrix.msu.edu/2012/08/making-sense-of-oral-history/.](https://ohda.matrix.msu.edu/2012/08/making-sense-of-oral-history/)

Shoulta. “Johnstown Oral Histories Github Actions.” April 15, 2025, December 12, 2025. [https://github.com/johnstownoralhistories/johnstownoralhistories.github.io/actions.](https://github.com/johnstownoralhistories/johnstownoralhistories.github.io/actions) 

Shoulta, Alexis, dir. Karen Shoulta Oral History. 2025. Oral History, 41:05. Johnstown Oral Histories (Our Collections). [https://johnstownoralhistories.github.io/items/Shoulta-Karen-Oral-History-001.html](https://johnstownoralhistories.github.io/items/Shoulta-Karen-Oral-History-001.html)

# Footnotes


